breaking news tonight Americans on
virtual lockdown to slow the spread of a
corona virus residents in the country's
largest city New York told a
shelter-in-place order could be coming
within the next 48 hours the San
Francisco area now under the tightest
restrictions in the country seven
million people told to stay in their
homes from coast to coast empty streets
businesses closed how long will it take
to know the extreme measures are working
what health officials said today and
their urgent plea to young people also
the growing medical crisis the backups
at drive-through testing sites the new
warning for hospitals flooded with
patients missing a lot of people just
kind of freaking out wanting peace of
mind and officials sounding the alarm
about the critical shortage of
ventilators president Trump promising
relief of a devastating economic impact
the administration seeking a one
trillion dollar emergency stimulus
package also under consideration sending
checks directly to Americans the drastic
action in Europe the EU closing all
external borders for at least the next
month voting in the middle of a pandemic
three states holding primaries but
several precincts failing to open and
our experts answering questions if you
have symptoms should you avoid a widely
used painkiller
[Music]
NBC Nightly News with Lester Holt good
evening we see to be reaching a point in
which little is off the table in terms
of controlling the kovat 19 pandemic the
mayor of New York City today telling
residents have prepared a shelter in
place the decision he says to be made
within the next 48 hours it would follow
strict measures that took effect in the
San Francisco Bay Area today also an
extraordinary plea to the young today
officials say they hold the key to
winning this fight we have so much to
tell you about tonight leading off our
team is Miguel Almaguer tonight in
communities big and small this is the
new normal as the corona virus crisis
changes daily life as we know it New
York City announcing it could soon
follow the Bay Area's shelter-in-place
directive 7 million people told to go
home and stay home cable cars here are
idle snarled traffic over the Golden
Gate Bridge is gone as the mayor works
in an empty City Hall what we have done
is really what should be happening all
over the country the three-week order
the most dramatic in the nation just
beginning to impact families who can
still go outside but must avoid public
gatherings our Jake Ward lives in
Oakland this is our reality for the next
few weeks we're gonna be eating out of
our kitchen we're going to be taking
conference calls our dining room table
and homeschooling our kids although
neither of us is a qualified teacher all
of that can be real challenge the
drastic measures in the Bay Area could
soon be adopted in already eerily quiet
New York City the mayor says within 48
hours the city could be ordered to
shelter in place the governor today this
is an extraordinary time in this
nation's history it will go down in the
history books as one of those moments of
true crisis New York State has the most
cases of coronavirus while across the
country in Washington State the death
toll is the highest today in Dallas
Cleveland Seattle and Rochester many
waited for hours to be tested for the
virus
the White House is now urging more
Americans to connect with doctors by
phone or Skype hoping to unclog over-run
emergency rooms while the young are most
likely to recover from covin 19 they are
also more likely to spread it to someone
who will not we can't do this without
the young people cooperating please
cooperate with us the closing of gyms
theaters and shopping malls
all aimed at reducing transmission it
probably would be several weeks and
maybe longer before we know whether
we're having an effect with Ohio
postponing its primary today Florida
carried on his plan though starting at
midnight the governor has ordered all
bars and nightclubs to close and
restricting public beaches where large
groups of Spring Breakers have gathered
even the Kentucky Derby postponed for
the first time since World War two hey
old-timer how are you doing today
but tonight Americans are finding ways
to stay connected in this new reality in
North Carolina Karly Boyd came to show
her grandfather
she's now engaged this sweet life moment
a reminder we are all separated together
there are more staggering numbers out
there today the TSA says 1 million fewer
people traveled yesterday than compared
to a year ago at the same time an air
traffic control personnel has also
gotten sick at Midway International
Airport they are slowing down operations
there meantime we also know the death
toll has climbed to over a hundred in
this country and lesser in business all
across the country including in our
newsroom they are going to a standstill
every seat in this building is typically
busy on a busy news day that is not the
case today this is the new reality at
workplaces all across the country last
year yeah McGee on that picture you
showed that young woman visiting her
grandfather for the window there's
absolutely heartbreaking well tonight
the Pentagon says it's preparing to
provide military hospital ships labs and
ventilators for civilian use and
potentially call up more National Guard
troops as people across the country rush
to find testing sites with VAD ears Tom
Costello across the country demand for a
code 19 test is far exceeding capacity
in
Ramin hem alabama the line of cars was
so long it snarled highway traffic a
doctor determining who should and
shouldn't be tested more drive-through
testing in Long Island and the Eastern
Shore of Maryland Maryland plans to turn
its auto emission stations into Cova 19
testing the federal government says
public and private labs have now
processed roughly 59 thousand tests so
far and we're seeing a lot of people
just kind of freaking out wanting peace
of mind
NBC's Morgan Chesky is in Dallas here at
this drive-through clinic anyone can
show up but to get that precious kovat
19 test patients have to test negative
for seasonal flu strep throat or tell
doctors they've come into contact with a
positive case the number of confirmed
cases rising by the day today we checked
back with dr. ryan k who runs the ER at
Everett Providence Medical Center
outside of Seattle in the past five days
the number of patients with respiratory
complaints has jumped 25% I am worried
we are going to exceed our total bed
capacity for the Northwest region of
Washington in a short period of time in
the next one to two weeks
Elizabeth Snyder tested positive after
being sick with what she thought was the
flu her temperature peaking at 103 five
days I would say and then on the sixth
day I started feeling better really when
I kind of in st. Louis KSDK NBC 5 anchor
and Allred has been ordered to stay home
having undergone a kidney transplant
three years ago she takes medicine daily
that suppresses her immune system when I
asked what could happen if I contracted
coronavirus I was told pretty much
anything between pneumonia and death
so yes I'm taking it seriously and I
feel very lucky to be able to work from
home meanwhile in Seattle the first
clinical trials for a possible vaccine
are underway with 45 healthy volunteers
among them Jennifer Haller everybody's
feeling so helpless right now and I and
I was so excited to find an opportunity
where I could actually do something
tangible to help everybody tonight
ProPublica has a new Harvard World
Health Study which finds under nearly
any pandemic scenario the nation's ICUs
would be overwhelmed
and in a moderate scenario the country
would need four times as many beds as it
currently has lustre alright some harsh
numbers there I'd Tom Costello thanks
and with the economy reeling tonight the
Trump administration and Congress are
working at a massive stimulus package
that could be up to a trillion dollars
in aid that sent the stock market
surging today with the Dow gaining more
than a thousand points our Peter
Alexander is at the White House tonight
the Trump administration is pushing a
huge new prescription to try to boost
the devastated economy send in cash
directly to Americans we're looking at
sending checks to Americans immediately
Americans need cash now and the
president wants to get cash now and I
mean now in the next two weeks the
president promising what he calls bold
action we don't want people losing their
jobs or not having money to live when
they were doing very well just four
weeks ago so we're going big and that's
the way it'll be tonight the White House
is proposing what would be one of the
largest emergency aid packages ever in
the range of a trillion dollars so far
no word how big those checks would be
but not everyone would get one we don't
need to send people who make a million
dollars a year checks okay it's now up
to Congress how much lawmakers are
willing to spend the proposed package
also includes emergency loans for small
businesses and billions for the hardest
hit industries like the airlines
meanwhile President Trump who's been
criticized for repeatedly downplaying
the virus threat today insisting his
tone has not changed this is a pandemic
I felt it was a pandemic long before it
was called a pandemic also tonight some
relief ahead of next month's tax
deadline while the administration is
encouraging people to file on time they
say if you owe the IRS money you'll get
an extra 90 days to pay it with the
interest and penalties waived last
earning people take any help they can
find right now Peter thanks and for some
that relief from the government can't
come fast enough with many small
businesses and their workers already
feeling the pain here's Gabe Gutierrez
with that as the president touted
financial relief today Peter Dabish
watched in frustration there's nothing
not enough information we don't know
what we're gonna get from the government
what type of help he and his cousin run
New York's West Way diner a theater
district staple overnight he switched to
only takeout orders is it sustainable to
just fulfill takeout and delivery orders
no business is down 95 percent what's
your message to President Trump
we need help now from coast to coast
small businesses are growing
increasingly desperate from the
restaurant industry in Illinois federal
government really needs to step up and
support the restaurant hospitality
industry in 2020 like they did in 2008
for the auto industry to a gym in
Connecticut the bottom line for us it's
stressful you know because we have you
know mortgages and taxes to Austin Texas
which closed its bars and restaurants
today anxious musicians watching the
self-described live music capital of the
world getting quieter by the hour but I
really worry about my friends and the
business I know that work gig to Gig and
hand to mouth this is no ripple effect
it's a tidal wave for the travel
industry to top executives mouth
president Trump at the White House today
we know that your industry is among the
hardest hit by the economic impact of
the virus as Marriott announced it was
preparing to furlough tens of thousands
of workers at the Westway diner
what stings the most is the uncertainty
it hurts a lot because we grew up in
this business this is our home and this
is our customers home we're family here
it's a big family many small business
owners we spoke with say they plan to
dip into their savings to pay for rent
but they don't know how long they'll be
able to avoid layoffs Lester how I gave
thank you in an empty Times Square in
the middle of the corona virus pandemic
three states Arizona Florida and
Illinois holding presidential primaries
today after Ohio delayed its contests
NBC's Kerry Sanders is in Florida
primary voting in the age of coronavirus
hand sanitizer encouraged and in
Illinois today blue tape on the floor to
keep voters six feet apart
Jerry Perkins personal protection his
winter gloves I'm doing what I can to
keep myself
in Arizona an estimated one in 25 voters
showed up today wearing a mask
including 82 year old Sharon Maxwell and
you voted I sure did in Florida some
chose to wear surgical gloves 20% of
Florida is over 65 the same group most
susceptible to coronavirus and
coronavirus was not going to dissuade
you no but in Florida like Illinois also
problems poll workers afraid they didn't
show up this morning leaving voters
scrambling in Palm Beach County
at least 17 precincts failed to open I
don't think I'm gonna vote no because
you just don't want to get close to
somebody just for my own protection
Ohio Governor Mike DeWine postponed his
state's primary today no one will have
to choose between their constitutional
rights and risking their health other
states in Puerto Rico with upcoming
primaries now doing the same as the
health of a nation takes center stage
despite some hiccups with Florida's
voting system tonight NBC News projects
Joe Biden takes the state and with it
219 Democratic delegates Lester all
right Kerry Sanders in Florida thank you
we'll be right back in 60 seconds with
the border crackdown in Europe as the
pandemic spreads there and mounting
concern over life-saving equipment the
effort to boost the supply of
ventilators the European Union tonight
announced it will close its external
borders for 30 days as concern grows of
the staggering level of infection seen
over there could play out here in the US
Keir Simmons has more from London now
tonight coronavirus driving europe into
crisis with checks at national borders
its unity tested in ways not seen since
the last century most traveled into the
continent now banned while the French
are fined if they go out without good
reason
a senior World Health Organization
official telling NBC News today America
will soon see European scale infections
what we're seeing in Europe in your view
is the future for America there will be
parts of the US where I expect to see
similarity what to what's happening in
your
Italy in the eye of the storm with too
few hospital beds and more than 2,000
dead NBC's Matt Bradley is in Rome Italy
is still racing to catch up with its
outbreak this hospital building behind
me now just four coronavirus patients
the British robbed by a startling UK
report warning of a catastrophic
epidemic the same research suggesting
without any action 2.2 million Americans
could die the UK's Prime Minister
declaring a war with an invisible enemy
we must act like any wartime government
this is the world-famous Trafalgar
Square and look how the world has
changed it feels like a Sunday here the
hard times bringing out the best in make
a cake at the door of an isolated
Spanish woman neighbors sing happy
birthday Keir Simmons NBC News London
yes Tom Costello showed us a bit ago
here in the US hospitals are being
pushed to their limit already by what
we've seen today New York's governor
sounded the alarm over a shortage of
life-saving ventilators
there's NBC's Cynthia McFadden as we sit
here today are there enough of
ventilators in this country in a
worst-case scenario ventilators would be
one of the choke points if you will for
effective response dr. Thomas Frieden
was the head of the CDC during the Obama
administration it's not clear that we
would have enough in a worst-case
scenario
that's one thing that health care
facilities need to get ready to surge
they are trying this little company in
Washington state Ventech life systems is
on the receiving end of many of those
calls we're talking to federal state and
local authorities from CDC to HHS as
well as other states around the country
we're talking administers of Health and
over 65 different countries we are
responding and the best way that we know
how they say they're selling their
ventilators on a first-come first-served
basis except to one group we are getting
calls from high net worth individuals
and from people who are worried and want
to take care of their families and
that's very real right now
we're choosing to fulfill the orders not
to individual
then tech with only 130 or so employees
has been making an fda-approved
ventilator for just over two years
they're one of about five ventilator
manufacturing companies in the US and
only about 12 worldwide they've been a
small player producing about a hundred
and fifty ventilators a month we're
working to scale production within the
next 90 days to get to a thousand units
per month as of right now we haven't had
any issues with our suppliers their
ventilators are unique the only ones
that come with multiple functions that
can also run on batteries our device can
be used literally from the hospital to
the home or in school gyms or tents if
it comes to that but even increasing
production so dramatically is a drop in
the bucket of need in total American
hospitals have approximately a hundred
and sixty thousand ventilators as for
the national stockpile because it's
classified those with direct knowledge
will only tell us there are more than
10,000 ventilators there and while that
may sound like a lot in a worst-case
scenario the US need could be massive up
to nine hundred and sixty thousand
ventilators that's a shortfall of
roughly seven hundred ninety thousand we
are gonna keep the factory running
around the clock we're in a unique
position to really help and every Vox
and we get out the door can save
someone's life Cynthia McFadden
NBC News New York Cynthia is gonna have
much more on this in part of an
hour-long special report on the corona
virus pandemic Thursday night at 10:00
Eastern Time on NBC and MSNBC up next as
we continue tonight what you need to
know about coronavirus and a popular
drug dr. John Torres joins me now John I
want to ask you about a question we keep
hearing a lot about does taking
ibuprofen make coronavirus symptoms
worse what do we don't lester there's a
lot of concern about this after the
French Minister of Health tweeted to
avoid anti-inflammatories like ibuprofen
the bottom line is there's no good
evidence to support the theory that
ibuprofen makes symptoms worse but if
you're concerned you can take
acetaminophen also known as Tylenol it
works as well as ibuprofen to control a
fever one of the main symptoms of the
virus plenty of rest fluids and coughing
Cole
medicine can also help make you feel
better but Lester if you start to
experience difficult breathing that's
when it's time to go to the emergency
room but call ahead so they're ready for
you all right thanks for addressing that
dr. John coming up next we'll bring you
a welcome high note look I know a lot of
the stories have been grim tonight so
how about a story about the power of
music bringing us together even when
we're forced to stay apart here's Kevin
Tibbles certain times music to our ears
a front porch symphony in Clintonville
Ohio Taryn Chen 9 and kid sister
Calliope six now home from school have
to practice the cello anyway so mom
Rebecca wielded her conductors baton it
started off for us as just a personal
bright spot they're 78 year old neighbor
Helen Aslam is isolating herself at home
as a precaution she was stuck inside of
her house so we decided to do something
for her we just wanted to make her happy
so the mini maestro is in their Sunday
best from a safe distance of course put
their fingers to work on a positive note
[Music]
the front stoop this day worthy of
Carnegie Hall Kevin Tibbles NBC News
what good things we have in our life
terrific a programming reminder I'll be
anchoring an hour-long special report on
the corona virus pandemic Thursday night
at 10:00 Eastern on both NBC and MSNBC
that's nightly news for this Tuesday I'm
Lester Holt thank you for watching
please take care of yourself and each
other
hey NBC News viewers thanks for checking
out our YouTube channel subscribe by
clicking on that button down here and
click on any of the videos over here to
watch the latest interviews show
highlights and digital exclusives thanks
for watching